# kotlinlang-site-migration

A migration of the simplified version of [https://kotlinlang.org](https://kotlinlang.org) from Flask, Jinja2 templates and React to React Router 7 Framework Mode. The original version was provided within a task for the React Router Migration: JetBrains.com JetBrains internship in the summer/fall 2026 internship cycle.

## Usage

Either Docker or pnpm are required to run the project.

For running locally, from the root of the project, run:

```sh
pnpm install
pnpm dev
```

The site will be available at http://localhost:5173

For running within a container, from the root of the project, run:

```sh
docker compose up
```

The site will be available at http://localhost:3000

## Migration structure

The original project combined SSR and CSR.

The header and footer were server-rendered by injecting raw HTML into Jinja2 templates, via the {% ktl_component %} tags. The raw HTML was generated by running a Node.js subprocess from the Flask application, which would use React to translate React components into raw HTML.

The body of the page itself was client-rendered, in the standard fashion, by providing a mount point div, where the HTML generated by React running on the client would be injected.

The migration does SSR throughout the entire site.

All routes are wrapped with the header and footer in the [root component](./app/root.tsx). There, all the meta tags and prefetches that were previously defined in a separate Jinja2 template are also defined. Data that changes across different pages, that is used within the meta tags, such as the page title or route, are injected via the Meta/Links exports that React Router 7 provides.

The [home page](./app/routes/home.tsx) contains [all the sections](./app/components/), which were ported almost verbatim, bar the SSR workarounds. More on that later.

The [styles](./app/styles/) were ported almost verbatim, only updated to support the latest version of SASS.

The [data used in the pages](./app/data/) was translated from YAML to TypeScript, to avoid using an additional package for YAML parsing.

[The assets](./public/), which were previously served manually, via the Flask server, are now automatically served from the [./public](./public) directory, by Vite.

## SSR workarounds

The components which made up the home page in the original project were not built with SSR in mind, so there were a few workarounds that needed to be made in order for them to be server-rendered successfully.

Calls to browser APIs, which don't exist on the server, were moved into useEffect hooks so that they run only after the component was mounted. These happen in:

- [Header section](./app/components/header-section.tsx): `window.innerWidth`
- [Usage section](./app/components/usage-section.tsx): `localStorage.getItem()`

### Problem

The header and footer were provided by the `@jetbrains/kotlin-web-site-ui` package, which does not support SSR.

I have tried patching the package itself, to introduce guard clauses for browser API access, via `pnpm patch`, but did not succeed.

The solution, which is not ideal, was introducing polyfills for browser APIs on the server, which were just stubs. This can introduce hydration errors, because the browser could produce different HTML from the server. These polyfills are provided within the [entry.server.tsx](./app/entry.server.tsx) script, which is the first script that runs on the server. This is guaranteed by React Router 7 Framework mode, by convention.

The only other solution to this problem that I saw was writing the header and footer from scratch, using `@rescui`, but this would be very difficult, requiring reverse engineering of the package itself.

## Discrepancies

The migrated site introduces a few discrepancies from the original site in functionality and visual appearance. Namely:

- The header and footer look different. This is because the original project uses version 3.1.0 of the `@jetbrains/kotlin-web-site-ui` package, while the migration uses version 4.14.4

The rest of the discrepancies were caused by the updated `@rescui` components.

- `@rescui/button` has a different colour in the newest version
- `@rescui/typography` changes the link text style and certain font styles in the newest version
- `highlight.js` changed the way Kotlin's syntax is highlighted in the newest version

## Improvements

The most pressing improvement is publishing a new version of the `@jetbrains/kotlin-web-site-ui` package, which would introduce components which are SSR-compatible.

Other than that, images that are below the fold could be lazy-loaded.
